I'm gonna primarily focus on stow and
the reason why I'm focusing on stow
is that it's incredibly simple.
I really wanted this as part of my
requirements because Ansible is really
complex it can do a lot of things
it can vault, it can install.
It can do my SSH key, awesomeness, it can
also become me, can do sudo operate like
it just, it's built to really
get my system up and running.
So I need something that's
just really simple and so
I wanted to have like
the opposite side here.
Stow only manages symlinks that is it
are soft links as they may be called right
there.
You can also run it on
different operating system.
Meaning that you actually have the choice
of what you do and don't stow.
So it actually does allow you to have
like, hey, when I sell and it's a Mac,
I want to know these things when I still
and it's Ubuntu I want to do these things.
If it's Windows subsystem,
I wanna stow it this way, right?
So you have different
options that you can do.
So to follow along,
I do recommend you if you want to,
you should try following along.
Apt install stow, brew installed stow,
if you're using Arch Linux you probably
already have stow or
know what you're doing.
So I'm just gonna just assume
you've already, by the way me,
you're better than me,
I get it, you use Arch Linux.
By the way, some friends and
I did start a group called FAAL,
father's against Arch Linux.
So if you use it, I just wanna let
that I'm against it, all right,
that's enough of that.
So I'm gonna first jump over
to the greatest program of
all time commonly referred to as GIMP,
here we go.
And this is obviously the superior drawing
program, none other are as good as GIMP.
For those that do know anything about it,
it gets made fun of all the time.
All right, so here we go,
everything looks good.
So when it comes to stowing,
stowing operates on directories and files,
so I'm gonna kind of create this
imaginary directory structure.
Let's just say I have something called
A that has a folder that has B in it.
B is a folder that has C in it and
C as a folder.
Say some file now you're probably
gonna first ask yourself, well,
you have really great handwriting for
using a mouse, you're right, I do.
Second, who names their folders A,
B, and C, but for the sake of this,
that's what we're doing.
So I want you to have your
attention right here on B.
Now B is gonna be where we're at, we're
gonna execute stow within this directory.
So B is my stow directory,
it's gonna go and attempt to stow C.
So C is gonna be the thing that is stowed.
B is the stow directory and where is it
gonna get stowed to now I know obviously
you don't you're probably a little
confused on the terminology.
What does stowing mean?
It'll become clear,
I just wanted to make sure you first
understand where things are going.
Lastly, it's gonna be going to A, so
A is what is referred to as our target
directory, B is our store directory,
and C are the things we're storing.
So let's kind of do this maybe in
a little bit more sensible way.
I'll actually give some real examples,
so hopefully this becomes obvious.
So when I use the term target directory,
you know what I mean,
it means the parent of the directory
that we're executing stow in.
So let's go back here, let's go to
I believe I have it in my Ansible.
Let's just make sure it's not here,
here I'm going to rm rf don't
pretend it's not there, all right?
So we're gonna make a directory
called target directory, right?
So I'm gonna CD into my target directory.
I'm then gonna make a directory
that is gonna be called my,
let's call it still or not.
Yeah, our stow-dr, and so
I'm gonna go into my stow-dr,
and now I'm gonna make
a directory called nvim.
How does that sound?
There we go, so
now I have a couple directories.
And so now we're into a place where I'm
in a place called target directory,
stow directory, and
there's a subfolder called nvim.
So inside of nvim, let's just have
a simple file called testfile.
And in it, I'm gonna go hello,
that's it, there we go.
So now if I go find starting right here,
you'll notice that we have the nvim sub
folder with a single file called testfile.
And if we look it up my
present working directory,
we are currently in target directory,
stow directory.
So now if I call stow,
which is the program, we just got done
installing either using brew, or apt,
or Pac-Man, or whatever you have.
Some next OS person is gonna stand
up now neckbeard super long,
tell me about the glories of next,
I don't wanna hear about it.
So anyways, so we have stow and
we are going to go stow nvim, that's it.
So no output happened, if I go find here,
nothing seemed to change.
So what changed?
Well, if you remember, if you recall,
we have a target directory,
which is the parents directory.
So let's go back into here, and let's
back it up, and let's find right here.
So what are you gonna see in here?
Well, you're gonna see something
that's kind of interesting.
We now have something called
testfile in the target directory.
So what is testfile?
So let's do a little ls-la, you'll
notice that testfile, A, it's a symlink.
So if you're wondering what a symlink is,
that's what a symlink is, so
it's a shortcut.
So you'll see that the test file was just
newly added, I did not add that, stow did.
Stow took the folder that I stowed and
put it in to the target directory.
And what it did is it used symlinks
meaning it didn't copy over the file,
it's just simply pointing
to the previous one.
So let's go back to our show directory and
let's open it back up,
we can see there's the test file.
And so let's add another file,
but this time,
let's add a directory let's pretend like
we're actually creating a nvim config.
So let's do the dot config,
let's go into here and do nvim, and
then inside of here let's do our init.vim.
So this is normally where you would
do it if you were on your desktop, or
on your home directory,
you do dot config, nvim and it dot nvim.
So let's go in here and I have this
nice little dot file right here, so
let's back it up.
All right, so let's go back into
our stow directory and go find.
So this is now our new nvim test folder,
it has nvim.
It has that same test file that did exist,
but it also has a config directory,
a nvim directory, and an init.vim
within the nvim.config directories.
So now when I call stow, and I do nvim,
what do you think is gonna happen?
So let's go back and let's do a find here.
Now find remember,
find it does not follow symlinks.
So what you'll see is that
we do have a test file and
we do have a config folder,
but that is it.
So when I go ls-la you'll notice that the
config folder just points to the config
folder in the nvim folder.
It effectively found the lowest
amount within the file tree that it
could symlink to, and
just simply symlinked it.
It didn't go all the way down,
it didn't create all the folders,
it just went as low as possible and
created that symlink.
Now obviously this could be
a little bit problematic, so
let's see what happens because there
has to be a problem here, right?
So let's go back into
my store directory and
let's create a new one called
tmux up CS that's a file.
We don't want a file,
we want a directory tmux, there we go.
We have a directory called tmux, and
inside of the directory called tmux.
Let's have another dot config folder,
right, so
this now creates a collision, right?
And inside of here, let's have tmux, and
then we can ask them like tmux dot config,
right, there we go.
That's the directory,
let's get rid of that, tmux conf, right?
All right, there we go,
now we can just put it I don't know.
Hello, we'll put hello again,
hello from tmux conf.
Just to make sure just in case we wanna
look at that, so now let's stoke tmux.
Now it didn't say any errors,
it does create the symlinks, but
where was the real question?
Where does it create the symlinks?
So now I just did stow tmux and
previously we had a config symlink here.
What should the result be?
It's really good to be able to kind
of reason about this ahead of time,
so that you can really understand
the program and how it runs.
So we're gonna kinda go with like
the scientific method here we're just
observing.
We're executing and observing cuz I could
just tell you exactly what's gonna happen,
but I think it's better
to learn by watching.
Let's just find out, I'm gonna back
it up and make your guests right now
in your head what you think is gonna
happen and see how right you are.
So now I'm gonna do it again,
I'm gonna do find again.
Now it's obviously changed,
we still have the test folder.
Config is no longer a symlink because
there are two files within it,
it looks like, and so
when I do ls-la on here, you'll see
that config is now just a folder.
And when I go ls-la in my dot config,
you'll see that nvim
points to the nvim folder and
tmux points to the tmux folder.
Now it did not go down and
create all those different files.
Instead, it points, it went as low
as it can in the file path And
simply created symlinks there,
that's pretty cool, right?
We went from a symlink add config to a
folder with symlinks that were needed for
everything that was already
linked at one point.
And so for me, this is a pretty exciting
experience, so let's try this again.
We're gonna do something a little bit
different, we got a question either.
>> How does it know that it
should look at stow-dr for
symlink like do you specified this.
>> So yeah, so that was remember
that was called in our diagram B or
the stow that I've kind of named it,
that is where we're executing stow from.
So stow goes, okay, from here,
I need the stow the nvim folder and
where does it put all of its contents?
It puts it into the target directory.
And so uses the path relative and
just puts everything all there for you, so
it just does it.
>> So we have to be in
the stow-dr to run stow, right?
>> Yes,
it doesn't have to be called stow though.
It can be called B,
it could be called full bar,
whatever directory you execute stow
from will become the stow there.
And where it gets put is one directory up.
Now technically, if you go to man stow,
you should be able to set up target,
right?
There is target directories, you can go
in here, I'm sure there's terminology and
all that in here, but there we go.
You can actually set the target directory.
So it doesn't need to be
in the shape I'm doing it.
I'm just doing the default shape,
right now, so
it feels really obvious what's happening.
But you could theoretically set the target
and it would behave the exact same way.
We would if say your target
was just like slash bar.
Right now you'd have slash bar dot config,
and then two siblings, nvim and tmux.